Docs 3674 dynamic evaluate v4.3 cv (#1652)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/dynamic-evaluate-component-reference.adoc

endif::[]
:keywords: mule, ee, esb, studio, dynamic, evaluate, expression

> The Dynamic Evaluate component evaluates an expression to select a DataWeave script, and then executes the new script to generate a final result. This behavior enables you to dynamically select the script, instead of hardcoding it into the xref:transform-component-about.adoc[Transform Message Component].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Dynamic Evaluate component evaluates an expression to select a DataWeave script, and then executes the new script to generate a final result. This behavior enables you to dynamically select the script, instead of hardcoding it into the xref:transform-component-about.adoc[Transform Message component].
```

Reviewer: Not sure we need "final" before "result."

The script can use any of the usual xref:dataweave-variables-context.adoc[context variables], such as `message`, `payload`,`vars`, or `attributes`, but you can also add custom ones by providing a set of key-value pairs.

== Dynamic Evaluate Configuration

[%header,cols="1,1,2,2"]
|===
| Field | Value | Description | Example

> | Expression | DataWeave expression | Specifies the expression to select a DataWeave script, and then Mule executes this script to produce a result. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Expression | DataWeave expression | Specifies an expression that selects a DataWeave script that Mule then executes to produce a result. |
```
Not sure we need "to produce a result."

`expression="#[vars.generateOrderScript]"`

> | Parameters | DataWeave expression | Specifies key-value pairs that should be bound to evaluate the final script. |

Reviewer: "that should be"? Sounds a little iffy (see style ref. entry for modal verbs).
Does this carry the same meaning and weight?
```suggestion
| Parameters | DataWeave expression | Specifies key-value pairs to bind to evaluate the final script. |
```
OR
```suggestion
| Parameters | DataWeave expression | Specifies key-value pairs to evaluate the final script. |
```

`#[{joiner: ' and ', id: payload.user.id}]`

|===

> == Example

Reviewer: Do we really need this heading? It's a peer to a topic that actually contains it, but I think it would be fine to follow the table with the text below.

Reviewer: If we keep headings like this, I think they should be more specific: Example of....

> The following example selects a script from a database through a `userId` query parameter and stores that script in a `userScript` variable. The `dynamic-evaluate` component accesses the `userScript` variable to invoke the script using the provided parameter: `name`, which contains the value of `attributes.queryParams.userName`.

Reviewer: Ah...now I see that the example is already a separate topic, so we REALLY don't need the ==Example title.

Suggest moving the text above to follow the next title.

Reviewer: Small change:
```suggestion
The following example selects a script from a database through a `userId` query parameter and stores that script in a `userScript` variable. The `dynamic-evaluate` component accesses the `userScript` variable to invoke the script using the provided parameter `name`, which contains the value of `attributes.queryParams.userName`.
```

> === XML Configuration of the Flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Example XML Flow Configuration
```
...followed by the previous para

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<flow name="dynamic-evaluate-example-flow">
  <http:listener config-ref="HTTP_Listener_Configuration" path="/"/>
  <!-- This SQL query uses queryParams.userId to dynamically select a DataWeave script stored in a Database,
  and then assign this script to target variable userScript-->
  <db:select config-ref="dbConfig" target="userScript">
    <db:sql>#["SELECT script FROM SCRIPTS WHERE ID = $(attributes.queryParams.userId)"]</db:sql>
  </db:select>
  <!-- The dynamic evaluate component executes the script stored in vars.userScript-->
  <ee:dynamic-evaluate expression="#[vars.userScript]">
    <!-- This line sets a parameter called 'name', so the expression in the Dynamic Evaluate component can use it -->
    <ee:parameters>#[{name: attributes.queryParams.userName}]</ee:parameters>
  </ee:dynamic-evaluate>
</flow>
----

> === Stored DataWeave Scripts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Example Stored DataWeave Scripts
```

}
----

=== Example Application Behavior

> When this example Mule application receives `lsalander` as the `queryParams.userId` in the request, Mule executes the corresponding script which results in a JSON response. If the application receives `mblomkvist` as the `queryParams.userId`, Mule executes a different script that generates a `x-www-form-urlencoded` response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this example Mule application receives `lsalander` as the `queryParams.userId` in the request, Mule executes the corresponding script, which results in a JSON response. If the application receives `mblomkvist` as the `queryParams.userId` value, Mule executes a different script that generates a `x-www-form-urlencoded` response.
```

This example demonstrates how the response type can be parameterized based on the user, but the entire response can

> be parameterized to suite each users needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be parameterized to suit each users needs.
```
